README.md, before:

I Have tested this under Redmine 3.4.6.stable

Redmine Email Fetcher
=====================

This redmine plugin extends the Redmine [Receiving emails](http://www.redmine.org/projects/redmine/wiki/RedmineReceivingEmails#Fetching-emails-from-a-POP3-server) 
functionality by allowing the configuration of email accounts from where emails should be periodically fetched.

__Features__:

 * Stores IMAP and POP3 email configurations.
 * Associate each email configuration with the desired project, tracker and optionally with categories and priority.   
 * Allow manual email connection test and fetch.
 * Adds a task which allows the cronjob to fetch emails from all active email configurations.
 * Allows a configuration to be inactivated to stop its emails synchronisation with Redmine.

__Restrictions__:

* The plugin requires a Ruby version equal or higher than 1.9.0.
* The plugin requires a Rails version equal or higher than 3.0.0.
* The plugin requires a Redmine version equal or higher than 2.1.0.

__Remarks__:

* The plugin is prepared and intended to run with any IMAP and POP3 email account, however
  some issues can accur due to security certificates.
* When using SSL, please check that the machine has the proper certificates installed
  by running the following terminal commands:
  * `openssl`
  * `s_client -connect HOST:PORT`
* The Categories and Priority fields are free text, so if you update their names it is your responsibility
  to update them accordingly in this plugin administration


Installation & Upgrade
----------------------

1. **install.** - Copy your plugin directory into `#{RAILS_ROOT}/plugins`.
   If you are downloading the plugin directly from GitHub, you can do so by
   changing into the `#{RAILS_ROOT}/plugins` directory and issuing the command:
   ```
   git clone git://github.com/luismaia/redmine_email_fetcher.git
   ```
   
   **upgrade** - Backup and replace the old plugin directory with the new
   plugin files. If you are downloading the plugin directly from GitHub, you
   can do so by changing into the plugin directory and issuing the command
   `git pull`.

2. Update the ruby gems by changing into the redmine's directory and run the
   following command.
   ```
   bundle install
   ```

3. Install the plugin by running the following command (in the redmine directory)
   to upgrade the database (make a db backup before) and copy current assets to 
   `public/plugin_assets/redmine_email_fetcher`.
   ```
   rake redmine:plugins:migrate RAILS_ENV=production
   ```

4. In the redmine directory `#{RAILS_ROOT}` run the following command.
   ```
   rake -T redmine:plugins:email_fetcher RAILS_ENV=production
   ```
   If the installation/upgrade was successful you should now see the list of
   [Rake Tasks](#rake-tasks).

5. Restart Redmine.

You should now be able to see **Redmine Email Fetcher** listed among the plugins in
`Administration -> Plugins`.
You should now be able to see **Redmine Email Fetcher** in the administration main area `Administration -> Fetch emails`.

### Uninstall

1. Change to the redmine directory `#{RAILS_ROOT}` and run the following
   command to downgrade the database (make a db backup before):
   ```
   rake redmine:plugins:migrate NAME=email_fetcher VERSION=0 RAILS_ENV=production
   ```

2. Remove the plugin from the plugins folder: `#{RAILS_ROOT}/plugins`
3. Restart Redmine.


Usage
-----

### Configuration

Open `Administration > Fetch emails` to access the plugin configuration:

**Email Configuration Attributes:**

+ **Configuration type** - Sets Email account configuration type:
  - **IMAP**
  - **POP3**
+ **Is configuration active?** - Specify if this email account is active and should
  be synchronized:
  - **True** - Task `fetch_all_emails` should synchronize this email account 
  - **False** - Task `fetch_all_emails` should ignore this email account
+ **Last successful fetch at** - (read only) Date and time of the last synchronization of this 
  email account with Redmine.


**Email Attributes:**

+ **Host** - The IMAP or POP3 server host (e.g. `127.0.0.1`).
+ **Port** - The IMAP or POP3 server port. Eg., `993`.
+ **SSL** - SSL usage? (Default: `True`) [Options: `True`, `False`]
+ **Username** - The IMAP or POP3 email account username (e.g. `it@domain.com`).
+ **Password** - The IMAP or POP3 email account password.
+ **Folder name** - The email folder name from where the emails should be fetched:
  - **IMAP** - Any folder name is possible, but the test function will validate that 
    this folder is reachable after login) (e.g. `REDMINE`).
  - **POP3** - Since this is an old protocol, only the `INBOX` folder is allowed
    (in fact you can't change this option)
+ **On success move to folder (IMAP only)** - (optional) This IMAP attribute allows configuration 
  of where successfully received emails should be moved to, instead of deleting them (e.g. `ARCHIVE`).
+ **On failure move to folder (IMAP only)** - (optional) This IMAP attribute allows configuration 
  of where ignored emails should be moved (e.g. `IGNORED`).
+ **Use APOP? (POP3 only)** - This POP3 attribute allows specifying if APOP 
  authentication should be used (default: `false`).
+ **On failure delete email (POP3 only)** - This POP3 attribute allows specifying whether emails which 
  could not be processed successfully are deleted from the server  
  (default: `false` - default behaviour is to leave them on the server).


**Unknown Sender Actions (in Redmine):**

+ **Method for unknown users** - How to handle emails from an unknown user where 
  ACTION can be one of the following values:
  - **accept** - the sender is considered as an anonymous user and the email is accepted (default).
                 If you choose this option you must activate the Custom field `owner-email`, where
                 the sender email address will be stored. Without this field activated, the email fetch will fail,
                 since this information is required to send information back to the sender 
                 (the [Redmine Helpdesk plugin](https://github.com/jfqd/redmine_helpdesk) may be a nice addition).
  - **ignore** - The email is ignored.
  - **create** - A user account is created for the sender (username/password are sent back to the user) 
    and the email is accepted.
+ **Use no_account_notice** - Suppressing account generation notification (default `False`).
+ **Use no_permission_check** - Disable permission checking when receiving the email (default `True`).
+ **Default group for new reporters** - (optional) Automatically adding new users to some group(s)
  (e.g. `group1,group2`).


**Default Issue creation (in Redmine) Attributes:**

+ **Tracker** - Target tracker (in case no tracker is specified in email content).
+ **Category name** - (optional) Name of the default category (in case no category is specified in email content).
+ **Priority name** - (optional) Name of the default priority (in case no priority is specified in email content).
+ **allow_override** - (optional) Allow email content to override attributes specified by previous options
  ATTRS is a comma separated list of attributes (e.g. `project,tracker,category,priority`).
+ **Project** - Target default project (in case no project is specified in email content).


For more information on these option visit Redmine official wiki [RedmineReceivingEmails](http://www.redmine.org/projects/redmine/wiki/RedmineReceivingEmails) page.


### Rake tasks

The following tasks are available:

    # rake -T redmine:plugins:email_fetcher
    rake redmine:plugins:email_fetcher:fetch_all_emails   # Fetch all active email accounts emails to Redmine
    
This task can be used for periodic synchronization.
For example:

    # etch all active email accounts emails to Redmine @ every 5 minutes
    */5 * * * *   www-data /usr/bin/rake -f /opt/redmine/Rakefile --silent redmine:plugins:email_fetcher:fetch_all_emails RAILS_ENV=production 2>&- 1>&-

The tasks recognize three environment variables:
+ **DRY_RUN** - Performs a run without changing the database.
+ **LOG_LEVEL** - Controls the rake task verbosity.
  The possible values are:
  - **silent**: Nothing is written to the output.
  - **error**: Only errors are written to the output.
  - **change**: Only writes errors and changes made to the user/group's base.
  - **debug**: Detailed information about the execution is visible to help
               identify errors. This is the default value.


Contributing
------------
Feel free to contribute by adding more features or solving issues.

All PR are very welcome.

After make your changes and before send the PR to the project, please validate that:

+ Rubocop doesn't detect offenses:

   ```
   cd plugins/redmine_email_fetcher
   rubocop --auto-correct
   ```

+ Tests are passing (tests need Redmine):

   ```
   RAILS_ENV=test rake db:drop db:create db:migrate
   RAILS_ENV=test rake redmine:plugins:migrate
   RAILS_ENV=test rake redmine:load_default_data
   ```

   ```
   RAILS_ENV=test rake test TEST=plugins/redmine_email_fetcher/test/<path_to_test>
   e.g.:
   RAILS_ENV=test rake test TEST=plugins/redmine_email_fetcher/test/models/email_configuration_test.rb
   RAILS_ENV=test bundle exec ruby -I test plugins/redmine_email_fetcher/test/models/email_configuration_test.rb
   ```


License
-------
This plugin is released under the GPL v3 license.

See LICENSE for more information.

Commit message:

README
* Updated requirements section for Redmine >= 4.0.0.
* Minor syntax fixes

README.md, after:

# Redmine Email Fetcher

This redmine plugin extends the Redmine [Receiving emails](http://www.redmine.org/projects/redmine/wiki/RedmineReceivingEmails#Fetching-emails-from-a-POP3-server)
functionality by allowing the configuration of multiple email accounts to fetch e-mails periodically.

## Features

 * Stores IMAP and POP3 email configurations.
 * Associate each email configuration with the desired project, tracker and optionally with categories and priority.
 * Allow manual email connection test and fetch.
 * Adds a task which allows the cronjob to fetch emails from all active email configurations.
 * Allows a configuration to be inactivated to stop its emails synchronisation with Redmine.

## Requirements

* Ruby >= 2.2.2
* Rails >= 5.2.0
* Redmine >= 4.0.0
* Bundler >= 2.0.1

__Remarks__:

* The plugin is prepared and intended to run with any IMAP and POP3 email account, however
  some issues can accur due to security certificates.
* When using SSL, please check that the machine has the proper certificates installed
  by running the following terminal commands:
  * `openssl`
  * `s_client -connect HOST:PORT`
* The Categories and Priority fields are free text, so if you update their names it is your responsibility
  to update them accordingly in this plugin administration


Installation & Upgrade
----------------------

1. **install.** - Copy your plugin directory into `#{RAILS_ROOT}/plugins`.
   If you are downloading the plugin directly from GitHub, you can do so by
   changing into the `#{RAILS_ROOT}/plugins` directory and issuing the command:
   ```
   git clone git://github.com/luismaia/redmine_email_fetcher.git
   ```

   **upgrade** - Backup and replace the old plugin directory with the new
   plugin files. If you are downloading the plugin directly from GitHub, you
   can do so by changing into the plugin directory and issuing the command
   `git pull`.

2. Update the ruby gems by changing into the redmine's directory and run the
   following command.
   ```
   bundle install
   ```

3. Install the plugin by running the following command (in the redmine directory)
   to upgrade the database (make a db backup before) and copy current assets to
   `public/plugin_assets/redmine_email_fetcher`.
   ```
   rake redmine:plugins:migrate RAILS_ENV=production
   ```

4. In the redmine directory `#{RAILS_ROOT}` run the following command.
   ```
   rake -T redmine:plugins:email_fetcher RAILS_ENV=production
   ```
   If the installation/upgrade was successful you should now see the list of
   [Rake Tasks](#rake-tasks).

5. Restart Redmine.

You should now be able to see **Redmine Email Fetcher** listed among the plugins in
`Administration -> Plugins`.
You should now be able to see **Redmine Email Fetcher** in the administration main area `Administration -> Fetch emails`.

### Uninstall

1. Change to the redmine directory `#{RAILS_ROOT}` and run the following
   command to downgrade the database (make a db backup before):
   ```
   rake redmine:plugins:migrate NAME=email_fetcher VERSION=0 RAILS_ENV=production
   ```

2. Remove the plugin from the plugins folder: `#{RAILS_ROOT}/plugins`
3. Restart Redmine.


Usage
-----

### Configuration

Open `Administration > Fetch emails` to access the plugin configuration:

**Email Configuration Attributes:**

+ **Configuration type** - Sets Email account configuration type:
  - **IMAP**
  - **POP3**
+ **Is configuration active?** - Specify if this email account is active and should
  be synchronized:
  - **True** - Task `fetch_all_emails` should synchronize this email account
  - **False** - Task `fetch_all_emails` should ignore this email account
+ **Last successful fetch at** - (read only) Date and time of the last synchronization of this
  email account with Redmine.


**Email Attributes:**

+ **Host** - The IMAP or POP3 server host (e.g. `127.0.0.1`).
+ **Port** - The IMAP or POP3 server port. Eg., `993`.
+ **SSL** - SSL usage? (Default: `True`) [Options: `True`, `False`]
+ **Username** - The IMAP or POP3 email account username (e.g. `it@domain.com`).
+ **Password** - The IMAP or POP3 email account password.
+ **Folder name** - The email folder name from where the emails should be fetched:
  - **IMAP** - Any folder name is possible, but the test function will validate that
    this folder is reachable after login) (e.g. `REDMINE`).
  - **POP3** - Since this is an old protocol, only the `INBOX` folder is allowed
    (in fact you can't change this option)
+ **On success move to folder (IMAP only)** - (optional) This IMAP attribute allows configuration
  of where successfully received emails should be moved to, instead of deleting them (e.g. `ARCHIVE`).
+ **On failure move to folder (IMAP only)** - (optional) This IMAP attribute allows configuration
  of where ignored emails should be moved (e.g. `IGNORED`).
+ **Use APOP? (POP3 only)** - This POP3 attribute allows specifying if APOP
  authentication should be used (default: `false`).
+ **On failure delete email (POP3 only)** - This POP3 attribute allows specifying whether emails which
  could not be processed successfully are deleted from the server
  (default: `false` - default behaviour is to leave them on the server).


**Unknown Sender Actions (in Redmine):**

+ **Method for unknown users** - How to handle emails from an unknown user where
  ACTION can be one of the following values:
  - **accept** - the sender is considered as an anonymous user and the email is accepted (default).
                 If you choose this option you must activate the Custom field `owner-email`, where
                 the sender email address will be stored. Without this field activated, the email fetch will fail,
                 since this information is required to send information back to the sender
                 (the [Redmine Helpdesk plugin](https://github.com/jfqd/redmine_helpdesk) may be a nice addition).
  - **ignore** - The email is ignored.
  - **create** - A user account is created for the sender (username/password are sent back to the user)
    and the email is accepted.
+ **Use no_account_notice** - Suppressing account generation notification (default `False`).
+ **Use no_permission_check** - Disable permission checking when receiving the email (default `True`).
+ **Default group for new reporters** - (optional) Automatically adding new users to some group(s)
  (e.g. `group1,group2`).


**Default Issue creation (in Redmine) Attributes:**

+ **Tracker** - Target tracker (in case no tracker is specified in email content).
+ **Category name** - (optional) Name of the default category (in case no category is specified in email content).
+ **Priority name** - (optional) Name of the default priority (in case no priority is specified in email content).
+ **allow_override** - (optional) Allow email content to override attributes specified by previous options
  ATTRS is a comma separated list of attributes (e.g. `project,tracker,category,priority`).
+ **Project** - Target default project (in case no project is specified in email content).


For more information on these option visit Redmine official wiki [RedmineReceivingEmails](http://www.redmine.org/projects/redmine/wiki/RedmineReceivingEmails) page.


### Rake tasks

The following tasks are available:

    # rake -T redmine:plugins:email_fetcher
    rake redmine:plugins:email_fetcher:fetch_all_emails   # Fetch all active email accounts emails to Redmine

This task can be used for periodic synchronization.
For example:

    # etch all active email accounts emails to Redmine @ every 5 minutes
    */5 * * * *   www-data /usr/bin/rake -f /opt/redmine/Rakefile --silent redmine:plugins:email_fetcher:fetch_all_emails RAILS_ENV=production 2>&- 1>&-

The tasks recognize three environment variables:
+ **DRY_RUN** - Performs a run without changing the database.
+ **LOG_LEVEL** - Controls the rake task verbosity.
  The possible values are:
  - **silent**: Nothing is written to the output.
  - **error**: Only errors are written to the output.
  - **change**: Only writes errors and changes made to the user/group's base.
  - **debug**: Detailed information about the execution is visible to help
               identify errors. This is the default value.


Contributing
------------
Feel free to contribute by adding more features or solving issues.

All PR are very welcome.

After make your changes and before send the PR to the project, please validate that:

+ Rubocop doesn't detect offenses:

   ```
   cd plugins/redmine_email_fetcher
   rubocop --auto-correct
   ```

+ Tests are passing (tests need Redmine):

   ```
   RAILS_ENV=test rake db:drop db:create db:migrate
   RAILS_ENV=test rake redmine:plugins:migrate
   RAILS_ENV=test rake redmine:load_default_data
   ```

   ```
   RAILS_ENV=test rake test TEST=plugins/redmine_email_fetcher/test/<path_to_test>
   e.g.:
   RAILS_ENV=test rake test TEST=plugins/redmine_email_fetcher/test/models/email_configuration_test.rb
   RAILS_ENV=test bundle exec ruby -I test plugins/redmine_email_fetcher/test/models/email_configuration_test.rb
   ```


License
-------
This plugin is released under the GPLv3 license.

See LICENSE for more information.
